
How to update the subtree?

Do a fetch on the remote, if no changes then good
If changes then create a local branch of the subtree pointing to camunda converter using a remote, pull the new data, compile and then merge
with the subtree in the main branch
can keep the local branch in order to see how many commits behind we are with respect to the remote


Use git tree diff between subtree and branch if necessary



HOW TO ADD A SUBTREE?

0. Go on the branch and location where you would like to add the subtree.
For this first step, we add a first working subtree to the main branch and inside the folder subtrees. Later on we can study and practice how to use subtrees in a new branch (not to mess anything up).
> git branch (-a) --> to list the branches of the repo
> git checkout main --> to select the main branch (or it could be master in some cases - not this one)
> cd subtrees --> we move inside the folder subtrees

1. Use an alias for the repo to be used as a subtree to make it easier to refer to the repo.
> git remote add learning-sub https://github.com/apuleius27/learning-sub --> we add the learning-sub repo to the remotes
> git remote -v --> to list the added remotes

2. Add the repo to be used as subtree.
> git subtree add --prefix subtrees/SUB learning-sub main --squash --> this will create the folder SUB inside the folder subtrees (since subtree add can only be used from within the toplevel of the working tree) and pull the data in it from the learning-sub remote (that we added before) and from the main branch

3. do git push to publish the changes.. if cannot login via terminal, then update using github desktop


how to update subtree?

1. fetch the remote repo to see if there are any changes. If no changes, then no need to update anything. If changes, then step 2.
e.g. git fetch mva master

2. fetch and merge the changes automatically by using the following:
git subtree pull --prefix MVA mva master --squash


how to make changes to a subtree (e.g. if i want to improve some functions) and then update the subtree with modifications made to the repo?

If i add a file to the subtree, it remains after the merge
If i delete a file from the subtree, it is NOT added back after the merge

so, how to see the differences?

if using only command line, my idea is the following:

1. create a new branch and go in there
e.g. git branch new
git checkout new

2. delete the subtree repo in it and then git push to publish changes
e.g. git rm MVA -r -f

3. add subtree (cf. points above).. this should add the whole subtree (e.g. adding any file that was removed and deleting added files)

4. do a difference between the two branches
e.g. from the branch we are modifying, do git diff main


if instead we want and can use a gui, we can use meld. Install meld (see guides)

we can follow procedure above or we can create a new subtree and clone/pull the remote repo there and then we use meld to do the diff between the two subtrees (the old one and the new one just pulled) and decide how to merge.
e.g. meld file1 file2
